In the previous chapter, we have seen look ahead assertion.
Now we are going to try one more option that is look behind assertion the look ahead assertion which
checks if something is following or not.
But the look behind assertion checks if something is preceding or not.
Let's begin with look behind assertion.
We write this assertion with a bracket question mark a less than sign.
Of course, the equal to sign and why?
Which is the character or word you want to search for?
If you give this, then it means it will check for why preceding x.
Assume that you have a string.
Dr. Java and Mr. Script are here now.
You want to get the name of a person preceding with Dr..
Then you can write a pattern, a question mark the less than sign the equality operator and I'll just
say d r dot.
Of course we want to search for words as well, so I'll say slash w plus let's write the code for the
same and check what is the output.
I'll declare the string.
And the pattern will be a question mark, a less than sign, which we'll look behind.
Then I'll say d r, dot w plus will console log width, match matter.
So we have the output Java as it is proceeding with.
Dr..
Let's try one more example where we want to find all the numbers with currency sign dollar.
So the pattern will be a question mark, a less than sine e quality.
And I will write slash dollar because if I write dollar without the escape sequence, then dollar has
a different meaning in regular expression pattern.
So that's why I use the backslash here.
That is the escape dollar.
Now I want that after dollar.
I want to have digits.
So I'll say slash D plus let's write code for the same and run it.
I'll declare a variable tolled ten times to pay dollars 30.
So $30.
I mean, then the pattern will be a question mark, a less than sine equal to slash dollar and of course,
slash D plus.
Let's use the match method and run the code.
Now you see that value 30 is returned as it begins with a dollar, whereas the other number ten doesn't
have preceding dollar.
So it is not in the list of output.
Let's try negative look behind.
So in the same case of previous example, assume that we don't want to search for currency values in
the list.
Then you can use an exclamation instead of equal to let's change and run the code again.
I will use the exclamation here so I'll remove equal to and we will run the code.
So now the output shows all numbers not preceded by a dollar sign, but it returns the zero of dollars
30 as well.
So here also we can use slash B for word boundaries.
Let's add it in the pattern and run the code again.
I'll say slash B and again slash B.
Now we have the expected result.
So this is all about assertions as we try more practical examples.
You will realize the importance of knowing assertions.